The Project Gutenberg eBook of The little elves seeking the beautiful
world, by Lucy Hamilton Warner

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The little elves seeking the beautiful world
       A book for children

Author: Lucy Hamilton Warner

Illustrator: Geo. W. Bardwell

Release Date: February 21, 2023 [eBook #70090]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
             images generously made available by The Internet
             Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LITTLE ELVES SEEKING THE
BEAUTIFUL WORLD ***






[Illustration: Queen Wishtah summons the Four Little Elves.]




                             THE LITTLE ELVES
                                 SEEKING
                           THE BEAUTIFUL WORLD

                          _A BOOK FOR CHILDREN_

                                    BY
                           LUCY HAMILTON WARNER
                                Author of
                     “THE FIVE LITTLE FINGER STORIES”
                            And Other Stories

                    _ILLUSTRATED BY GEO. W. BARDWELL_

                                 NEW YORK
                         DUNREATH PUBLISHING CO.
                                   1895

                             COPYRIGHT, 1895,
                                    BY
                           LUCY HAMILTON WARNER

                     WYNKOOP & HALLENBECK, NEW YORK.




                     I DEDICATE THIS LITTLE VOLUME TO
                                My Father
          WHOSE TOUCH OF GENTLENESS AND LOVE EVER WARMS MY HEART

                               _The Author_




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


                                                                      PAGE

    QUEEN WISHTAH SUMMONS HER FOUR LITTLE ELVES,             _Frontispiece_

    THE ELVES’ DEPARTURE,                                                9

    SPIDER EYES FEELS AN EARTHQUAKE,                                    13

    THE ELVES HIDE FROM MR. GARDEN TOAD,                                17

    SPIDER EYES ASLEEP IN THE POPPY,                                    21

    THE MENDING OF SPIDER EYES’ WING,                                   27

    SPIDER EYES ASKS THE GLOWWORM THE WAY,                              35

    THEY HEAR THE GLOWWORMS TALKING,                                    39

    SPIDER EYES HAS A FALL,                                             43

    IS RESCUED BY GRANDFATHER GRASSHOPPER,                              47

    GRANDFATHER GRASSHOPPER INTRODUCES THE FOUR LITTLE ELVES TO
      MRS. FIELD MOUSE,                                                 51

    SPIDER EYES TRIES TO LIFT THE BABY MOUSE,                           59

    MRS. FIELD MOUSE’S HOUSE IS DESTROYED,                              65

    THE CROW AND THE FOUR LITTLE ELVES,                                 69

    THE WHIP-POOR-WILL AND THE LITTLE ELVES,                            73

    THE FOUR LITTLE ELVES WASH THEIR FACES WITH DEWDROPS,               77

    GOLD JACKET, THE BUMBLEBEE, LEADS THEM,                             79




THE LITTLE ELVES SEEKING THE BEAUTIFUL WORLD




PART I




CHAPTER I


The beautiful Queen Wishtah had quite decided to change her home from the
Northern to the Southern clime.

She had heard of evergreen groves, where around each pine-tree could be
built a palace that would stand for years.

So she summoned to her presence four of her trusty elves, named Spider
Eyes, Chip Wing, Pointed Toes and Dusty Cap.

They came and knelt before the throne, waiting her command.

She reached forth her wand and said: “Arise, go seek one of those
wonderful pine groves, for therein shall my palace be built. This
Norseland is too cold and bleak. I will hold court in a warmer clime.”

The elves arose at their Queen’s bidding, and set off on their journey.

They traveled south, they traveled east, and they traveled west.

[Illustration: THE ELVES’ DEPARTURE]

One day, after a longer flight than usual, as they were resting beneath
a willow-tree, they saw some children playing, and in their play they
called to each other: “Let us go to see the beautiful world,” and with a
merry shout they all joined hands, still singing as off they ran: “Let us
go, we wish to see the beautiful world.”

Now spoke up Spider Eyes: “That is just what I have been wishing to do.
What if we also go to see the beautiful world?”

“We must first make ready the Queen’s palace, then we might leave and go
in quest of the beautiful world,” responded Pointed Toes.

“It cannot be far, and it must be very beautiful, for did you not see how
joyfully the children all went?” said Spider Eyes.

They then flew into a pine grove, and very soon transformed it into
enchanted Elfland.

“Now all is ready for Her Majesty,” said Chip Wing.

“Yes,” answered Spider Eyes, “and as it will be some days before she
comes, we will have time to go in search of the beautiful world.”

“I am not going,” said Dusty Cap, “for no one will be here to welcome her
when she arrives.”

“O yes,” answered Spider Eyes, “we will soon return, then we will tell
her of the beautiful world and she will want to go there also.”

“Come! come! brothers,” exclaimed Chip Wing, “I am in such a hurry. We
are only wasting time lingering here.”

So off they flew, Spider Eyes leading the way, although he knew not what
direction to take. Suddenly he stopped, saying: “I am going to ask the
first one we meet which is the way to the beautiful world?”




CHAPTER II


While Spider Eyes was talking, being quite tired, he sat down on what he
thought to be a brown stone, but much to his surprise he felt the stone
rising.

He called out in alarm: “Oh! where am I going? The earth is quaking!” He
heard a laugh and the stone shook under him. “You sat down on my back, so
I thought I would give you a ride,” said the brown creature under him.

Then he saw he was sitting on Mr. Garden Toad, who brought him down to
the ground with a flop.

Chip Wing, Pointed Toes and Dusty Cap ran to learn what was the matter,
and to see if he was safe.

On a nearer view of Mr. Toad, they thought he was the ugliest thing they
had ever seen.

There he sat, all dressed in dirty brown, his big eyes bulging out on
either side of his head, and right back of each eye was a big white wart.

He looked so hideous as he opened his mouth to grin that the elves shook
with fear.

“Well! well! my little men,” he said, trying to look his best, “what do
you want? This is not Elfland. What have you come here for, and where are
you going?”

“Oh,” answered Spider Eyes, still quaking, “we want to see the beautiful
world. Can you tell us the way?”

“Yes,” replied the toad quickly, “I will gladly do so. I have been there
many times. Come, jump upon my back and take a ride. I will hop to the
place.”

It did not take them long to get seated on his back, for they were
already quite tired out with their journey.

How tightly they had to hold on with their feet, for, as he kept leaping
and leaping, he chuckled so hard that it made his body shake.

Once he stopped, and Spider Eyes, catching his breath, said: “I think we
will walk, if you do not mind.”

“Yes,” spoke up Pointed Toes. “It will be very much better to walk than
to be shaken to pieces.”

“No, no!” exclaimed the toad. “You must ride, or else you can not go to
the beautiful world. We will reach it very soon, my dearies.”

So, against their will, they remained upon his back, as they wanted so
much to see the beautiful world.

He hopped, and hopped, and hopped again.

As he was hopping through a hedge, a sharp thistle pierced one of Spider
Eyes’ wings.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER III


“Oh!” he cried out, “that hurts.”

Dusty Cap, seeing the thistle still sticking in Spider Eyes’ wing,
reached across the back of the toad to draw it out.

The more he pulled the more it hurt, and Spider Eyes groaned with pain.
Pointed Toes and Chip Wing also tried to assist him.

“What is the matter now?” angrily cried Mr. Toad. “You will break my
back. Every time you step, you make a dent in it. My back is surely
softer than the ground. Do sit still if you want to see the beautiful
world.”

“Oh, oh!” cried Spider Eyes, “I am in such pain I can go no further. With
my torn, hurt wing I cannot enjoy seeing the beautiful world. I must go
to our uncle, Dr. Spider, with it.”

“Here we are at Dr. Spider’s house,” said Dusty Cap.

“You jump off, and we will fly up and follow you,” said Chip Wing, “for
we would not go to the beautiful world without you.”

When the toad was getting ready for another hop, off jumped Spider Eyes,
and the rest flew off.

It was well they left Mr. Toad just as they did, for they saw him
disappear within a dark hole, where, if they had gone too, they would
never have seen the light of day again.

Mr. Toad soon appeared at the mouth of the hole and called out to them:
“Come, come, and go to the beautiful world.”

“No, no!” answered Spider Eyes. “My wing is hurt, and I am going to Dr.
Spider’s to have it mended.”

The toad grew quite angry when he heard this and said: “You must and
shall go with me; I will catch you.”

How his eyes glared! How wide he opened his mouth. He seemed ready to
swallow them.

“No,” said Pointed Toes. “We are not going until Spider Eyes’ wing is all
right.”

“But I will make you go,” cried the toad, springing towards them in such
a rage that they ran to hide.

They knew, then, that he would do them some harm, instead of taking them
to the beautiful world.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER IV


Spider Eyes hid in a poppy; Dusty Cap in a rose.

Pointed Toes and Chip Wing flew into a large white lily.

When they peeped out to see if they were safe, they beheld Mr. Toad
looking all around for them.

He was scolding and scolding, but all in vain.

His eyes, although they were so big, were not sharp enough to see which
way they flew.

What a horrible grunt he uttered! and he stuck his tongue far out of his
mouth.

What a long tongue! He seemed to be watching something. Lazily flying by
was a large blue fly, and as the fly drew near the toad, the toad made a
snap and a jump, then all was still: for that was the end of the poor,
poor fly.

The elves grew more afraid, and wished the toad would go away. They heard
him say as he peered all around:

“I will catch the little fellows yet. How nice they will be for my
supper.”

Of course, they were sorry that Spider Eyes’ wing was hurt, yet they
could not help feeling glad that all this happened, for it had saved them
from such a sad fate.

Dusty Cap looked out from his hiding-place in the rose, and there sat the
toad at the foot of the bush.

He smothered a cry and drew back in alarm, hoping the toad had not spied
him.

Pointed Toes whispered to Chip Wing: “I wish something would frighten him
away.”

And Chip Wing said softly: “I feel very anxious about Spider Eyes.”

They loved the flowers, but they were now tired of staying in them, for
they wanted to be on their way to the beautiful world.

Yet there they were, prisoners to the toad! When would he go away!

As they were wishing and waiting, they heard some merry children
laughing, and were wondering where they were, when out into the garden
came the children, singing as they skipped along, “Let us go to the
beautiful world.”

Mr. Toad, in his fright, forgot all about the little elves and jumped far
away and hid.

Soon everything was so still that Dusty Cap ventured to creep out of the
rose, and then he saw that they were free once more. He called:

“Spider Eyes! Chip Wing! Pointed Toes! Come out! There is nothing to
fear. The toad has gone.”

Chip Wing and Pointed Toes answered with joy: “We are coming!” and flew
out of the lily.

[Illustration: SPIDER EYES ASLEEP IN THE POPPY]




CHAPTER V


They waited and listened; still Spider Eyes did not appear.

They turned to each other in alarm, saying, “Where is he? We are sure the
toad did not catch him, for we were watching all the while.”

“Spider Eyes! Spider Eyes!” they called; but he did not answer.

“Come,” they said at last, in despair, “we will fly from flower to flower
until we find him.”

They searched first in the daisy, then in the hollyhock and the roses all
over; then in the trumpet vine.

Still he could not be found.

Pointed Toes and Dusty Cap were about to shout his name again, when they
heard Chip Wing loudly call:

“Here he is, and fast asleep! Why did he go in those flowers? for it is
said they put people to sleep; and sometimes it is a sleep from which
they never waken.”

They flew to Chip Wing, and saw Spider Eyes fast asleep in a gaudy red
poppy.

They shook and shook the flower, but still he slept on.

Dusty Cap wrung his hands, saying: “What if he should never wake up!”

Pointed Toes said, “I will arouse him.” And he took from his side his
tiny sword and entered the poppy.

It had a strange odor that made him feel faint.

He longed to lie down and go to sleep himself, but he knew that there was
danger. So he kept awake with much effort.

He touched Spider Eyes on the forehead.

“What is that?” asked Spider Eyes yawning. “Oh, go away! I am so sleepy.”
And he turned himself over for another nap.

But Pointed Toes was in earnest, for he knew the danger, so he touched
him again, and before he could think about another nap pulled him to the
edge of the poppy, where Dusty Cap and Chip Wing met them and drew Spider
Eyes to the ground.

By this time Spider Eyes was fully awake, he turning to his brother,
saying:

“Why did you disturb me? I was having such a lovely dream—all about the
beautiful world.”

“Oh, Spider Eyes!” exclaimed Dusty Cap, Chip Wing, and Pointed Toes, all,
“You would not go without us, would you?”




CHAPTER VI


“You were with me,” laughed Spider Eyes, “but it was all in a dream.
Now we must call on Dr. Spider before we set out in earnest to see the
beautiful world.”

“He has been watching us from his door,” said Chip Wing. “Why, he is
coming to meet us!”

And, sure enough, out came Dr. Spider from his web, that reached from one
rose branch to another.

Down he came, swinging on a fine thread; but before he touched the ground
the elves ran and called to him to stop.

He paused and asked: “What do you want, my little fellows and nephews?
what do you want?”

“Oh, Dr. Spider,” they answered, “we have brought Spider Eyes, who has
hurt his wing. We are sure you can heal him.”

“Well, if that is the case,” said Dr. Spider, “I will go back to my
office, and I will send down the stairs, so that the hurt one can climb
to my web.”

Then he began to spin upward, and soon was seated in the middle of his
web.

A gossamer thread now floated down on the air to the little fellows, and
they knew it was from Dr. Spider.

Chip Wing caught it, and hand over hand Spider Eyes climbed up. The
others flew, more quickly.

When they reached the web they found Dr. Spider waiting for them.

How daintily they stepped on each thread on their way to his office,
which was in the middle of the web.

“Well, Spider Eyes,” asked the doctor, “what is the matter with your
wing? How did you hurt it?”

“Oh, doctor,” answered Spider Eyes, “we were on our journey to see the
beautiful world, and were taking a ride on a toad’s back. He jumped
through a thistle hedge, and some of the thistles caught my wing. It does
hurt me so.”

“Ah, my little fellow,” said the doctor, “why were you not contented at
home? Is not everything beautiful enough in Elfland? Is not Queen Wishtah
the kindest and best of Queens?”

“Oh, yes,” they all said, “we love our homes, but we have heard so much
of the beautiful world that we want to see it.”

“Well, well! my little men,” said the doctor, “I think you had better go
back to your good homes. Home is the best place for every one.”

Then he looked at poor Spider Eyes’ wing and found it was torn very badly
in three different places. No wonder it pained him.

He pulled out a sharp needle from his case, then he drew some fine thread
from his body, which he fastened to the side of the wing and began to
weave back and forth, over and under, in and out, until the wing looked
as it did before.

Then to make it glossy he spat upon it.

“Now my work is done, and my advice to you still is, go home to Elfland,
and leave the beautiful world for others to find.”

[Illustration]

“Oh, thank you, Dr. Spider, for what you have done, but we must go and
see the beautiful world.”

“Well, good luck to you, my little nephews; if you still persist in
going, I fear you will have a hard time. I never heard anyone who went
upon that journey say on their return that they had found the beautiful
world.”

The elves smiled when they bade the doctor good-by, for they thought they
knew better than he did.




THE LITTLE ELVES SEEKING THE BEAUTIFUL WORLD




PART II




CHAPTER I


On and on they flew; first Chip Wing ahead, then Spider Eyes, as his wing
grew stronger.

Finally they came to some crossroads, where they stopped and said one to
the other:

“I wonder which road will lead us to the beautiful world?”

“See,” said Spider Eyes, “see that bright fellow; he will surely know the
way and with his lantern will guide us.”

“Oh, I am afraid to ask him,” said Chip Wing, “for he may do to us just
as the toad tried to.”

“But we will have to ask some one anyhow,” said Spider Eyes, “since we
cannot find the way ourselves.”

They started to speak to him, but drew back in fright on seeing that he
was not alone.

In the roadway, here and there, glowed many a worm with his little
lantern.

Dusty Cap said, “We can never dare to ask them, for there are so many of
them, and they will surely do us some harm.”

“Well,” cried Spider Eyes, “I will face the danger; see, I am going.”

He flew in the air and alighted on the ground just before a large
glowworm, who said to him:

“Ho, ho! What do you want, my little man?” and he brightened up his light
so that it dazzled Spider Eyes.

“When did you come from Elfland, and what can I do for you?” he continued.

“Kind friend,” said Spider Eyes, shading his eyes from the glare of the
glowworm’s lantern, “my brothers and I are going to see the beautiful
world, and we wish to inquire the way.”

“I do not know anything about the beautiful world myself,” said the
glowworm, “but you wait here, and I will ask some of the older glowworms
who have traveled more than I have. To me, as I crawl over the ground,
the world is dark and brown, so you see I do not pretend to know much
about it. Above us are shining so many bright little lights, glittering
and sparkling. They seem to journey from one place to another, just as we
do with our little lanterns. Then there comes one big light from some far
off place we do not know about. How it lights up the whole earth! and it
shines so bright that we glowworms hide our lanterns in shame, for they
seem so feeble. I suppose if you fly up there, high in the air, you can
see the beautiful world. Now I will ask the way for you.”

The glowworm left, and Spider Eyes could hear the buzz of their talk.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER II


“What did he tell you?” asked Pointed Toes, coming towards him.

“Which way are we to go?” inquired Dusty Cap.

“Are we on the right road?” questioned Chip Wing.

“He said he had never seen the beautiful world,” answered Spider Eyes.
“But there are some bright lights overhead that he thought were the
lights of the beautiful world. He was not sure, however, and so he went
to ask his friends if they knew the way.”

“Here he comes!” exclaimed Dusty Cap. “How his lantern flickers as he
steps along!”

“Well, kind friend,” inquired Spider Eyes, as he turned to the glowworm,
“what did you find out? Which is the way?”

“When I asked them,” replied the glowworm, “they all shook their heads.
But one glowworm, the oldest one of all, said he would tell you the way
to the beautiful world. Here he comes now. He will speak for himself. So
good-day to you,” and he left them.

Up crawled the other glowworm, and they could see that he must be old and
feeble, for his light burned very dimly.

The elves gathered close around him, asking all together: “Which is the
way? Tell us the way, please!”

The glowworm answered: “I cannot tell you, but I will take you to
Grandfather Grasshopper, who is a great traveler, and he must surely
know all about the beautiful world. We will start at once, for
Grandfather Grasshopper is at home. I saw him only yesterday.”

The elves were so impatient that they flew on before, but the glowworm
called them back, saying:

“You must not go so fast. I can not keep up with you. As I can only
crawl, you will have to walk by my side.”

So the elves came back, thinking it was very hard to walk so slow, when
the time was going fast, and as they were in such a hurry to find the
beautiful world. For they must soon return to their Queen.

Yet they saw they must not make the glowworm angry, for he could go no
faster, and their only hope of finding the beautiful world seemed to be
through his aid.

On and on they crept, going around this stone and that root, this pool
and that stump, until at last they came to a wheatfield.

Here the glowworm crawled under the fence and beckoned them to follow.

They flew over the fence and rested on some tall spears of wheat.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER III


He moved onward. They saw him stop and knock on one of the wheat sheaves.

In response to his knock there came forth a large brown grasshopper, who
said as he hopped out:

“How do you do, Mr. Glowworm? It is not often you pass here. It must be
important business that brings you.”

“True,” answered the glowworm. “I seldom come this way. The air is too
dry, and there is not wood enough to roam around in. I have come to-day
to bring these four little elves, who wish to see the beautiful world. I
thought that you, who are always on the go, and have traveled here and
traveled there, would surely know the way to the beautiful world.”

“Hum, hum!” said Grandfather Grasshopper, “the most beautiful world I
have ever seen is the wheatfield. And I chirp and sing as I go from one
field to another. But come, I would know your friends. Perhaps I can tell
them where to find their beautiful world.”

The glowworm then called the elves, who, upon seeing Grandfather
Grasshopper, appeared surprised and said:

“We know very well who you are. We have seen you ever so many times. You
are one of our Queen’s favorites. Were you not chosen to escort her from
the north to the south?”

“Yes,” answered Grandfather Grasshopper, “I know you well. Yes, I wait,
with the rest of you, on our beloved Queen Wishtah. Hello! Spider Eyes,
you look full of glee. Aha! Pointed Toes, you seem very merry. Chip Wing,
did I not see you last as herald to the Queen? And Dusty Cap, are you
over your fall? But what are you all doing now, away from the Queen?”

“Going to see the beautiful world,” they all said. “Is it far from here?”

“I do not know anything about your beautiful world,” replied the
grasshopper, “but I know one thing: People who try to get there are very
apt to come back saying they have not found it. Now, my advice to you is,
to go home and take care of our beautiful Queen, instead of searching
around to find the beautiful world.”

“Ahem!” said Spider Eyes, “we, thank you very much, but we must go to see
the beautiful world.”

“Do just as you please,” answered Grandfather Grasshopper. “As I told you
before, I do not know the way, but I will do what I can for you. I will
introduce you to Mrs. Field Mouse. Oftentimes she has friends from the
great city, and she seems to know everything. I am not, however, very
well acquainted with her, but she looks nice. Come, I will go with you to
her home.”

They thanked the glowworm and bade him good-by.

“Spider Eyes, you look tired,” said the grasshopper. “You had better jump
on my back; the rest can follow us.”

They had to fly fast to keep pace with Grandfather Grasshopper and Spider
Eyes.

They went across the field to one corner where the wheat stood close
together.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER IV


Here Grandfather Grasshopper stopped. The elves could not imagine why. It
was so sudden that Spider Eyes lost his balance and was tossed over the
grasshopper’s head.

He came down with such a thump that he could hardly tell his head from
his heels.

He heard the grasshopper and the elves laughing, but he could not see
them, for he was under a sheaf of wheat.

He called out angrily to them: “You may laugh, if you will; but I tell
you it is no fun to be thrown in mid air and land on your head. You would
not like it a bit, Chip Wing, to be tangled up in this place. I can not
get out by myself, so do come and take some of these straws away. They
are tearing my wings and my clothes.”

They called, “Where are you, Spider Eyes? We cannot see you; speak again,
so that we may find you.”

“Here I am, right here! Now I will kick, and you will see where to pull
away the straws. Quick! I am smothering.”

The elves flew to the top of the sheaf, from where Spider Eyes’ voice
sounded, and saw that he had been pitched into a hole, where he lay on
his back, fighting and struggling with the straws.

They looked at each other in dismay, asking: “How can we get him out of
that hole?”

By this time Grandfather Grasshopper had hopped to the top. He said: “I
can tell you how to do it.”

The elves asked quickly, “How?”

“You wait here,” he replied, “and I will hunt through the field for two
long and stout straws to bind together.”

Off he started in quest of the straws, and the little elves sat down to
wait.

Spider Eyes, who had not heard what the grasshopper said, thought he had
lain there long enough, and he cried out to his three companions, “Now,
Dusty Cap, Chip Wing, Pointed Toes! I call that mean. I would help you.
But you sit chattering, and leave me here in distress.”

Then Spider Eyes kicked away at the straws very impatiently.

“We are very sorry for you,” said Chip Wing. “Help is coming. Grandfather
Grasshopper has gone for it.”

“Well,” said Spider Eyes, almost crying, “it is dreadful to lie here. The
straws stick into my back and into my ears—even into my eyes—and when I
move to get them out of my way, they raise such a dust that it chokes me
almost to death; and I cannot see. I wish you would hurry. Do be quick!”

“Here comes Grandfather Grasshopper,” they all cried. “Now you can get
out sure.”

Soon Grandfather Grasshopper arrived with the two straws of wheat lying
across his back.

They looked like two logs of wood dragging on the ground.

As he came toward the elves he said: “You will have to pull them off. I
cannot possibly do it myself. To put them on my back I had to have the
help of neighbor Cricket. But he is so slow. He will not be here until we
have Spider Eyes out of the hole.”

“Hello, Spider Eyes,” called Grandfather Grasshopper, “are you all ready
for us?” and he leaped away.

Where was he going? They watched him in wonder.

He turned round and leaped backward, so that his back was toward the
pile.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER V


“Come, Dusty Cap! come, Pointed Toes! come on, Chip Wing!”

At that call the elves were on the spot, each ready to take hold of the
straws.

“Now,” Grandfather Grasshopper, “what shall we do next?” they all asked
as they pulled them off.

“Now,” replied the grasshopper, “we will take the straws and twist them
together. That will make a strong, stout rope.”

The elves found it hard work, for the straws were very heavy. How glad
they were when they had finished.

“That looks fine!” said the grasshopper. “Now catch hold of this end of
the rope and fly over the hole where Spider Eyes lies. Go high in the
air, so that the other end will swing clear of everything—then drop it
down carefully, keeping fast hold of the end you have.”

The rope was very heavy for the little elves to fly with.

They did their best, however, and succeeded in sending the end into the
hole. As it touched him, Spider Eyes growled out:

“What are you doing now? Do you call that help? Am I not teased enough by
these straws, without your throwing any more down on me?”

The grasshopper, who stood upon the edge of the hole, answered him: “Do
not be cross. Help is coming; help is here. Now all you have to do is to
take hold of that straw rope and kick yourself free from the wheat. Chip
Wing, Dusty Cap, and Pointed Toes, fly! Pull! Fly upward and pull hard.
And you, Spider Eyes, spring! jump! get free! One, two, three! Away you
go! I thought that would work.”

Spider Eyes came out of the hole with a spring and a jump. He was so glad
to be free he answered the grasshopper with a merry laugh.

The elves then dropped the rope and flew to the ground.

As they came to the grasshopper he asked them:

“What are you going to do now? I think you had better go home.”

“No, no!” they answered. “We are going to see the beautiful world. That
is what we started for, and we do not intend to give it up.”

“I am very sorry I cannot help you,” said the grasshopper. “But I will
introduce you to Mrs. Field Mouse, as I promised. She may tell you the
way. Oh! here we are at her door.”

[Illustration: GRANDFATHER GRASSHOPPER INTRODUCES THE FOUR LITTLE ELVES
TO MRS. FIELDMOUSE]




CHAPTER VI


The grasshopper lifted up his leg and rapped on a stalk of wheat.

“Who is there?” piped a thin, squeaky voice.

“It is I, Grandfather Grasshopper, with some friends,” he answered.

“What do you want? what are you bothering me about?” inquired the same
little voice. “I am very busy with my family, and I cannot spend time to
talk.”

“We want to know how you are,” responded the grasshopper, “and my friends
here would like to ask you how to go to the beautiful world?”

“If that is all you want, I will gladly come down and see you,” said Mrs.
Mouse, “for I know the way to the beautiful world and can tell you all
about it.”

Then down the spear of wheat she came.

“Good-day, Mrs. Mouse,” said Grandfather Grasshopper. “How do you and the
little ones fare to-day?”

“Not very well, thank you,” answered Mrs. Mouse, “for we were very much
frightened yesterday by the men reaping this field. I thought every
moment they would pull down the house. But how are you, Mr. Grasshopper,
and who are your friends?”

“I am well,” he answered, “only a little tired. These are my friends,
from Elfland. They want to see the beautiful world.”

    “This is Spider Eyes,
    Who is growing wise.
    This is Pointed Toes,
    Who looks where he goes.
    This is Dusty Cap,
    Never caught taking a nap.
    This is brave Chip Wing,
    Who flies above everything.”

“I am glad to meet you, gentlemen,” said Mrs. Mouse, making a low
courtesy. “Now, come into my house until I tidy up, and we will talk
about the beautiful world. What! are you not coming in, Mr. Grasshopper?”

“No,” he answered. “I have tarried too long. I must join the cavalcade
that is to escort Queen Wishtah to her southern realm. Good-by!”

And the grasshopper hopped away, leaving the elves alone with Mrs. Mouse.

How sorry they were to see him go. They were afraid already of Mrs.
Mouse. She was so big, too.

They were half sorry they had not gone with him, for he was going to
Elfland, and would see their Queen.

Chip Wing started to call him back, but Spider Eyes caught hold of him
and stopped him, saying:

“No, no! We must go to see the beautiful world.”




THE LITTLE ELVES SEEKING THE BEAUTIFUL WORLD




PART III




CHAPTER I


Mrs. Mouse tripped daintily up, merrily chattering, and calling to the
elves:

“Come, come! follow me.”

Then she pushed aside some stalks of wheat and led them into her tiny
home.

They entered the house much against their will.

They would have preferred to remain at the door, and hoped they would not
have to stay there long, and that she would soon be ready to go and show
them the way to the beautiful world.

How was it she was not as pleasant as she was when Grandfather
Grasshopper was there?

She called out sharply, “Spider Eyes, come in quickly, and shut the door.”

The elves thought it not quite polite.

The air was so close within, that Spider Eyes’ head began to swim, and
Chip Wing, seeing him stagger, ran to open the door just a little bit.

As soon as Mrs. Mouse saw him do it, she turned around and gave Spider
Eyes a slap with her paw which knocked him quite over.

“I thought I told you to shut the door. Did you not hear me? It makes
such a draft the children will take cold.”

This made Chip Wing angry, and he shut the door with a bang.

“I will pay you for that,” said Mrs. Mouse. “You must count the kernels
in this stalk of wheat. I will punish you for setting my nerves all ajar.
And you, Dusty Cap, take some straw and patch up that hole in the side of
the house. Pointed Toes, you must sweep the floor; and you, Spider Eyes,
must take care of my dear children. Keep them asleep. And, mind you, if I
find anything wrong when I come home, I will attend to you all.”

She left them with a warning nod of her head, and each elf went to his
task with a heavy heart.

“What right had she to do this? She is not our Queen! We need not follow
her commands!” exclaimed Spider Eyes, turning to his brothers three.

“This is not what she said she would do,” said Chip Wing. “She promised
to show us the way to the beautiful world. I tell you what, we will not
stand this long. We will leave this place in a hurry.”

When they thought she had gone far away, they flew to open the door, but
found to their sorrow that it was locked, and she had taken the key.

They shook and shook the door, hoping that some part would give way. Then
they turned to each other, exclaiming in great alarm: “We are prisoners!”

Just then one of the little mice awoke kicking and wanting some water.

It rolled out of bed, crying: “Oh, I am hurt; mamma, come and pick me up.”

Spider Eyes heard the little one cry, and remembering that it was left in
his care, ran to lift her up. But mousie was too heavy for him.

[Illustration: SPIDER EYES TRIES TO LIFT THE BABY MOUSE]

Poor little Spider Eyes tried to lift her head, then her feet, but all in
vain.

Then he called to his brothers, saying: “Do come and help me. Chip Wing,
you take her head, and Pointed Toes and Dusty Cap take her feet, while I
put my hands under her back.”

Still they were unable to lift her, and they had to leave her.

By this time her noise had awakened all the rest of the family.

What a screaming and squeaking and squealing they made, all crying,
“Mamma!”

The poor little elves could hardly hear themselves think.

Spider Eyes said, “I do not like this. We must get out of it as soon as
we can. What a noise, what a hubbub! I never heard such a din. Hark,
there is the key in the door! She is coming! Let us slip by her and fly
off.”

Just as they thought they were safely past her, she caught them one by
one. Giving them a sharp pinch with her teeth, she sat them on the floor
with a thump, saying:

“You thought you were going, did you? Why did you not go?”

Then she stepped inside the door and locked it.

Taking up a stick she beat the little elves until they were sore and lame.

How they huddled in one corner, saying: “If this is the way to the
beautiful world, we wish we had stayed at home.”

Mrs. Mouse said to her children: “My little dearies, you sweet little
darlings, did they abuse you? I will take good care that they do not do
it again. Aha, aha! They are looking for the beautiful world, are they? I
will show them the beautiful world! They are to be my slaves. They shall
serve me and mine, and that is the beautiful world for them.”

She turned to them, laughingly, and said: “So you want to see the
beautiful world? Well, it lies at the end of this stick I want you to
understand. Now, each to your task. What! You are not going!”




CHAPTER II


As she saw them cling closer and closer together, she raised the stick,
and was about to give each a knock. But she suddenly dropped it and shook
with fear.

The house was shaking! What could be the matter? Surely, the top of the
house was falling in!

The elves, for safety, took to their wings.

As they flew high in the air they looked down and saw the reason why the
house had tumbled. It was attacked by a big black cat.

How her eyes did glitter and glare!

She snapped up Mrs. Mouse just as she was saying, “Hide, dearies, hide!”
Then, “Children, run away!”

But the cat was too quick for them. She swallowed them all before they
could even turn around.

When the elves saw that they were free, they turned to each other and
asked what should they all do.

“I will tell you what,” said Pointed Toes; “I would rather go home.”

“Not faint hearted!” cried Spider Eyes. “Why, now we are surely near the
beautiful world, and you must go on with us, and not turn back.”

“Yes, come on,” said Chip Wing. “I think, with Spider Eyes, that we are
almost there.”

“And I think with Pointed Toes,” said Dusty Cap; “I would rather go home,
too. Yet we must keep together so as to protect each other. If you still
insist upon going to the beautiful world, why we will go with you.”

“Well,” said Spider Eyes, “we are going. We _will_ find the beautiful
world. We are almost there. When once I set out to do a thing I never
like to turn back, and I am going to see the beautiful world.”

Away they flew, still seeking the beautiful world.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER III


They had not flown far when Spider Eyes turned to Chip Wing, and said: “I
wonder if we are going the right way? We will have to ask some one again.”

“Oh, oh! do not ask!” exclaimed Pointed Toes. “I am so afraid! We surely
will be hurt!”

Spider Eyes answered: “We will not be caught again. We have learned too
much for that.”

“Now, who will you ask?” queried Dusty Cap.

Just as he said that, they heard “Caw, caw.” They jumped back with
fright, it sounded so close to them.

Looking around, they saw on a stone fence a big black crow.

He was so big and so black!

“Suppose we ask him,” said Spider Eyes. “We have heard all about him.
Everybody says he knows a great deal. It is well we met him. He is just
the one to tell us the way to the beautiful world.”

So they gathered courage afresh, and flew to the fence, and sat by the
side of the black crow, who was trimming his feathers.

They sat very still, for they were half afraid.

Just as he was pulling one feather out very straight he happened to
glance down and spied Spider Eyes.

“Ho, ho! little man, why, who are you? where did you come from? and what
do you want?”

“Oh,” answered Spider Eyes, “I am a little elf from Elfland. I and my
three brothers wish to see the beautiful world, and you, who fly so high
and go so far, can surely tell us where it is.”

“Well, I guess I can,” answered the crow, “for I have seen the gates many
and many a time. You must fly directly east, for there are the golden
gates. Now, farewell, for I must go. I have many a hill to reach in the
west before the dark comes on.”

Saying this, he flew away and left the little elves still sitting on the
fence.

“See,” said Spider Eyes, “I told you so; I knew we would find the way to
the beautiful world, and from what the crow said we cannot be very far
from it.”

Then off they all four flew, straining every feather of their wings to
reach the east.

On and on they flew; and still the east seemed so far away.

At last Spider Eyes called out: “Stop, brothers, stop! There must be a
shorter way. We have been flying east long enough, and have not had a
glimpse of the beautiful gates. The next person we meet will know the way
to the beautiful world we are so anxious to see.”

[Illustration: THE CROW AND THE FOUR LITTLE ELVES]




CHAPTER IV


Spider Eyes had hardly finished talking when they heard the faint cry of
“Whip-poor-will!”

They had surely heard that cry before.

But what did it mean?

They flew in the direction from whence the sound came.

Then stopped and listened again.

Once more the cry came; and they saw sitting on the lowest branch of a
maple-tree a small brown bird with red and white spots on his body.

“Why, he is talking or calling to some one,” said Pointed Toes. “We know
of that bird, too, but have never heard him call before. He flies high,
and he flies low, so he must surely know all about the beautiful world.”

They then flew up and rested on the branch beside the bird; but he did
not see them, and continued to sing his mournful strain: “Whip-poor-will,
whip-poor-will!”

They grew tired of sitting still, for they were anxious to be on their
way.

Spider Eyes said, “He does not see us. I am going to ask him. Bird, bird!
Oh, kind bird! Little brown bird, covered with red and white spots, tell,
oh tell us, the way to the beautiful world. We have flown east for many
days, and just as we think we are nearing the beautiful world we find it
gone. Tell, oh tell us, if this is the way, the only true way, to the
beautiful world.”

The brown bird ceased his call and listened to Spider Eyes. Then he shook
himself and said:

“You are wrong, all wrong. You are going the wrong way. Ha, ha! who ever
heard of the beautiful world lying in the east! Every one knows it lies
in the west. Why, now, look there! While I speak, see the gates to the
beautiful world opening up.”

They turned and looked, and saw, surely, the gates of the beautiful
world; and they all said again:

“Mr. Bird do—_do_—tell us the way to the beautiful world. It cannot be
far off now. See how large the gates are and how bright the gold shines!
We could not see it if it were so far away.”

“Well,” answered the bird, “I have never been there. I am off for a fly,
however, and I do not mind seeing you started on the right way. I hope
you will reach it safely. When you come back you will find me here,
resting near my nest. Then you can tell me all about it. Perhaps I would
like to go, too.”

Off they flew, with the whip-poor-will as captain.

On one side flew Spider Eyes and Chip Wing; on the other, Pointed Toes
and Dusty Cap.

How quick and fast they went through the wood and over the dales!

“Why,” suddenly exclaimed Spider Eyes, “what is the matter? The golden
gates of the beautiful world do not shine so brightly! Are they closing
up? Come, brothers, hurry! hurry! Let us fly faster.”

“I must leave you now,” said the whip-poor-will. “I am tired, and I must
rest awhile, for I have to sing all night,” and then he alighted on the
branch of a tree.

They thanked him for his kindness, and flew on without stopping.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER V


What could be the matter? How dark the woods seemed to grow!

The only way they could keep together was by chirping and calling to each
other.

“Oh, Spider Eyes! Stop, stop!” called Pointed Toes, “I am tired. Do let
us rest awhile. Besides, it is so dark we can no longer see the gates of
the beautiful world, and if we fly on we will surely lose our way. So let
us rest here, and perhaps it will be lighter soon.”

“We think Pointed Toes is right,” said Chip Wing and Dusty Cap. “Come,
Spider Eyes, come!”

So the four weary little elves flew into the notch of an old tree
standing at the edge of the wood.

They found that they were very, very tired, and soon were fast asleep and
dreaming of the beautiful world.

Spider Eyes awoke with a start. Where had the darkness gone?

Everywhere it was light now.

He called to Pointed Toes, Chip Wing, and Dusty Cap, “Wake up! We have
rested too long!”

They all sprang to their feet, exclaiming, “What is the matter?”

Spider Eyes called, “Up, up! We must fly to the beautiful world before
this day is done.”

Each took a dewdrop from the edge of a strawberry leaf, with which to
wash his face, for their eyes were heavy with sleep.

As they flew up, Spider Eyes said, “I do not see the gates of the
beautiful world; perhaps it is because we are so close to them and they
are so large. I am sorry, since we will not be able to fly so direct.”

[Illustration: THE FOUR LITTLE ELVES WASH THEIR FACES WITH DEW DROPS]




CHAPTER VI


Chip Wing suddenly exclaimed: “Does not this look like the wood near our
Queen’s realm?”

“No, no!” said Spider Eyes, “it cannot be. We have flown too far away.”

“Yet it really looks like it,” said Pointed Toes. “Those trees are like
the very ones we passed when we were going to make ready the Queen’s
palace.”

“It cannot be,” said Dusty Cap. “We will soon find out where we are, for
we will ask the first thing that comes this way. Let us sit down on this
rock and wait.”

[Illustration: GOLD JACKET, THE BUMBLEBEE, LEADS THEM]

They were but just seated when they heard, “Buzz, buzz! buzz, buzz!”

They were sure that they had heard that sound before. The “buzz, buzz,”
came nearer, and looking up they saw that it was Gold Jacket, the
bumblebee.

On what mission was he going?

He could not be spared long from Queen Wishtah’s realm.

They flew to him and eagerly asked what he was doing here; was he, too,
going to leave the Queen to see the beautiful world.

He answered them, saying: “I am glad that you four have come back.”

“But we have not,” said Spider Eyes. “How can you say such a thing! for
we will not come back until we have seen the beautiful world.”

“Buzz, buzz!” laughed Gold Jacket, the bumblebee. “You seek the beautiful
world; I will lead you to it now.”

How happy they felt that their old friend, the bumblebee, with his sweet
words, would show them at last the beautiful world. Buzz, buzz! whiz,
whiz! on flew the bumblebee, never stopping and ever calling them to
follow.

On, on he flew until he reached the gates of Queen Wishtah’s palace.

“There, my little friends,” he said, turning to them, “are the gates
to the beautiful world. You have sought it elsewhere all in vain. The
beautiful world is our own home! It matters not where, if love and
contentment dwell there.”


THE END.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LITTLE ELVES SEEKING THE
BEAUTIFUL WORLD ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
